y# Linking
Linking is mostly refers to when an application linked to a library. There are two types of linking.
- Static Linking
- Dynamic Linking
<br>

### Static Linking
When application already comes with the library it's called static linking. Which means, if 2 application uses the same library, there will be 2 copies of the same library in the system.
<br>

### Dynamic Linking
When application does not contains the library instead library being installed as a separate package and linked to the app, it's called dynamic linking.  Which means, even if 1000 apps uses the same library there will only be one copy of that library in the system. These types of libraries called shared library. It's extremely useful because now a days application uses many libraries to make development faster and stable specially for linux. And with dynamic linking lots of space can be saved.

In most system shared libraries listed in `/etc/ld.so.conf` file. Some OS like ubuntu might split configs into sub-config at `/etc/ld.so.conf.d`.


### Add Custom Library
If we want to add our won custom library to this list all we need to do is create a conf file with any name and inside the conf file we need to specify the lib location.
Example:
```bash
# This is inside a conf file
# Custom lib
/home/Ahsan/lib/
```

After adding conf file we need to update config by running `sudo ldconfig`.

### Remove Custom Library
To remove any library we need to remove the corresponding conf file then run `sudo ldconfig` cmd and that's it.


NOTE: To learn more about `ldconfig` type `man ldconfig`.


### Troubleshooting
There might be some case where because of some library app might crash. So how do we find which library responsible for that?
Before that we need to know the app or program location. To find that we need to run `which` command,
```bash
which ls
```

it will output the location of the `ls` command which is `/bin/ls`. Now we are ready to find out which libraries are being used by this `ls`  command. To find that we need to run,
```bash
ldd /bin/ls
```

`ldd` will print all the linked libraries of the given program path and that it will be easier for us to guess which lib is responsible for the crash or any other issue.