# Environment Variables
Environment variables are same as linking library and different at the same time. It's hard to explain but just remember that with environment variables we can link our custom lib also can do some other cool stuff.

> We can run `env` to check all the environment variables that already set in the system.

<br>

### Add Environment Variables
```bash
export ANYNAMEE=any_value
```
> Just remember that environment variables are normally temporary. After reboot system variables should gone. But there are ways to make them permanent which we are going to learn. 

<br>

### Make Permanent Environment Variables
There are files that stores environment variables and execute each time system rebooted so the variables become permanent. One of those file is `.bashrc` which is located at user directory, in my case  `/home/ahsan/`.

> One more thing, files or folder that are started with `.` dot is hidden. So, we can't see them with normal `ls` command. To view hidden files we need to run `ls -a`, here `a` stands for `all`.

So, now we need to go to the user directory and edit the `.bashrc` file to add a environment variable permanently. Let's do that,

```bash
cd /home/ahsan
ls -a
```
This should already show the `.bashrc` file. All we need to edit the file. So let's open it with `vi` or `vim` editor.

> `vi` and `vim` are pretty much same. Vim is just a enhanced version of vi editor. But there are old system that does not have vim installed instead they have vi. So, using vi is safer choice.

```bash
vi .bashrc
```
after open the file add the variable that you want at the end of the file and save.

```bash
export ANYNAMEE=any_value
```

> Check vim shortcuts/uses from `Tools` section which will also works with `vi` editor.

<br>


### Remove Environment Variables
If you have added variables to the `.bashrc` file then just remove it from there and reboot system or set the variable to empty string. If you added it as temporary variable then just replace the value with empty string.

```bash
export ANYNAMEE=
```

> In this way variable will be there until you reboot the system but there won't be any values.

<br>

### Add Library with Environment Variables
```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/ahsan/lib/
```

This command will add `/home/ahsan/lib/` to our lib config for this specific user. If we want to check lib added through environment variables then we need to run,
```bash
echo $LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```